1,2,3,4
Seville, Febre. 6th. 1629
My dear Sir,
I am glad to hear that the drafts of my deceased
friend, Mr. Hall, have been honoured and that his books
are forwarder to London. I must again express my sense 
of the kind interest yoy have taken in his concern and 
my regret that my visit to Port S. Mary's should have 
drawn all this trouble upon you, thought i am, sensible 
the goodness of your heart makes that appear light, wich 
would be intolerablu irksome to any other person,
it is with the greatest satisfaction that i have 
made the acquiatance of your daughter, the marchioness 
of arco hermoso. I was extremely struck with her
strong resemblance to you, not merely in her ##
##, but in the strength and ironcity of her
..........
feelings in her mode of expressinf herself,and in the 
apparent turn of her mind.I propose to pay a 
visit to dos hermanas in the beginning of next week. the 
bad weather & the unkiked state of the road have hitherto 
prevented me. the Marchioneas, O understand, has had 
the kindness to write out some little enecdotes she told 
me of the Spanish peasantry, their opinions and mode 
of life, she related them with wonderful spirit and 
disorimination, and, in fast, her conversation made such 
an impressuon on me that, i noted down as much of the
substance and pursuit of it as i could recollecy., i do not 
know when i have been more delinghted witch the 
conversation of any one, it was so full of original 
matter,the result of thinking and feeling, as 
well as observing.
..........
Or you can see a new literary paper published at Madrid
entitled " el correo Literario y Mercantil". I observe the 
critics who write for it consider the late dramatic writer 
Moratin as superior to Calderón, Lope de Vega and 
all the old School.How little do these degenerate 
Spaniards Know of what they ought to be proud of. When 
i see them tamely bending the neck to the yoke of 
french dramatic rule, i dispair of even beholding at 
several of the ancient literary glory of Spain.
Present my kindest remembrances to Mrs, Böhl, and 
believe me, my dear sir, with the highest respect 
and regard, your ever sincere and obliged friend 
Washington Irving 
P.S Taught to have ## acknowledged the receipt
of the sketches, and the volume of ##. which
you had the goodness to forward me and for which i ##
you many thanks.
..........
Dº Juan Nicolás Böhl
Puerto Santa María
